DBZ-1928 updated doc for Avro serialization (#1622)
debezium/debezium: documentation/modules/ROOT/pages/configuration/avro.adoc

toc::[]

{prodname} connectors work with the Kafka Connect framework to capture changes in databases and generate change event records. The Kafka Connect workers then apply any configured transformations to each of the messages generated by the connector, serialize each message key and value into a binary form by using the configured link:https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/#connect_running[_converters_], and write each message into the correct Kafka topic.

You can specify converters in several ways: 

* In the Kafka Connect worker configuration. 
+
In this case, the same converters are used for all connectors that are deployed to that worker's cluster.

* For an individual connector. 
+

> Kafka Connect comes with a _JSON converter_ that serializes message keys and values into JSON documents. You can configure the JSON converter to include or exclude the message schema by specifying the `key.converter.schemas.enable` and `value.converter.schemas.enable` properties. The {prodname} {link-prefix}:{link-tutorial}[tutorial] shows what the messages look like when both payload and schemas are included. 

Reviewer: I feel like this and the following two parameters apply to both Kafka worker or individual connector setups and probably shouldn't be indented under the second option.

Author: Sure. I removed the plus signs that indent those paragraphs. Fixed in the next commit.

Including schemas causes the messages to  be very verbose. If you want your messages serialized with JSON, consider setting these properties to `false` to exclude the verbose schema information.

Alternatively, you can serialize the message keys and values by using link:https://avro.apache.org/[Apache Avro].

> The Avro binary format is compact and efficient, and Avro schemas make it possible to ensure that the messages have the correct structure. Avro's schema evolution mechanism makes it possible to evolve the schemas over time, which is essential for {prodname} connectors that dynamically generate the message schemas to match the structure of the database tables. Over time, the change events captured by {prodname} connectors and written by Kafka Connect into a topic may have different versions of the same schema. Avro serialization makes it easier for consumers to adapt to the changing schema.

Reviewer 2: Without the section before (which now is part of the Apicurio section), there's some context lacking _why_ a registry is needed. How about adding something like this here:

When using Apache Avro as a message format, a schema registry must be deployed which manages Avro message schemas and their versions. Options include the Apicurio API and Schema Registry and the Confluent Schema registry.

Author: Before this point in the source file, no content is conditionalzed for just upstream nor just downstream. That is, all content is visible both upstream and downstream. But I think you are right that the doc needs to say that a registry is required and why. I added the following at the end of the section: 

To use Apache Avro as the message format, you must deploy a schema registry that manages Avro message schemas and their versions.

I left out you suggested second sentence because there is only one option downstream, and the next section in the source file describes it. Then a bit later, conditionalized for upstream only, the doc says you can use Confluent.

Reviewer 2: Sounds good.

* An API/Schema registry that tracks:
+
** Avro schemas that are used in Kafka topics
** Where the Avro converter sends the generated Avro schemas

+
Since the Avro schemas are stored in this registry, each message need only include a tiny _schema identifier_.
This makes each message even smaller. For an I/O bound system like Kafka, this means more total throughput of the producers and consumers.

* Avro _Serdes_ (serializers and deserializers) for Kafka producers and consumers.
Any Kafka consumer applications that you write to consume change event records can use Avro Serdes to deserialize the change event records.

To use the {registry} with {prodname}, you must add {registry} converters and their dependencies to the Kafka Connect container image that you are using for running {prodname}.

[NOTE]
====
The {registry} project also provides a JSON converter. This converter combines the advantage of less verbose messages with human-readable JSON. Messages do not contain the schema information themselves, but only a schema ID.
====

ifdef::community[]

> Another option is using the Confluent schema registry, which is described later.

Reviewer 2: A reference would be nice.

Author: Sure. I added one.

endif::community[]

// Type: concept
// Title: Overview of deploying a {prodname} connector that uses Avro serialization

> [id="overview-of-deploying-a-debezium-connector-that-uses-avro-serializatioin"]

Author: Just noting here that I fixed this in the source. I will commit all the updates in one operation.

== Overview

To deploy a {prodname} connector that uses Avro serialization, there are three main tasks: 

ifdef::community[]
. Deploy an link:https://github.com/Apicurio/apicurio-registry[{registry-name-full}] instance.
endif::community[]
ifdef::product[]
. Deploy a link:{LinkServiceRegistryGetStart}[{registry-name-full}] instance by following the instructions in {NameServiceRegistryGetStart}.
endif::product[]

ifdef::community[]
. Install the Avro converter from link:https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/io/apicurio/apicurio-registry-distro-connect-converter/{apicurio-version}/apicurio-registry-distro-connect-converter-{apicurio-version}-converter.tar.gz[the installation package] into Kafka Connect's _libs_ directory or directly into a plug-in directory.
endif::community[]
ifdef::product[]
. Install the Avro converter by downloading the {prodname} link:https://access.redhat.com/jbossnetwork/restricted/listSoftware.html?product=red.hat.integration&downloadType=distributions[Service Registry Kafka Connect] zip file and extracting it into the {prodname} connector's directory.
endif::product[]

> . Configure a Kafka Connect instance with the following property settings: 

Reviewer 2: Can you add a sentence after the listing like this: Alternatively, you can also configure specific connectors to use the Avro converter.

Author: Can the word "also" be removed from the sentence that you want to add?
And should this additional sentence be indented to align with the listing? I think so, but I'm not certain.

Reviewer 2: Yes, you can remove the "also". Re indentiation, I don't know, perhaps even just in brackets after "property settings (alternatively...)".

toc::[]

{prodname} connectors work with the Kafka Connect framework to capture changes in databases and generate change event records. The Kafka Connect workers then apply any configured transformations to each of the messages generated by the connector, serialize each message key and value into a binary form by using the configured link:https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/#connect_running[_converters_], and write each message into the correct Kafka topic.

You can specify converters in several ways: 

* In the Kafka Connect worker configuration. 
+
In this case, the same converters are used for all connectors that are deployed to that worker's cluster.

* For an individual connector. 

> Kafka Connect comes with a _JSON converter_ that serializes message keys and values into JSON documents. You can configure the JSON converter to include or exclude the message schema by specifying the `key.converter.schemas.enable` and `value.converter.schemas.enable` properties. The {prodname} {link-prefix}:{link-tutorial}[tutorial] shows what the messages look like when both payload and schemas are included. 

Reviewer 2: I don't think the tutorial link will work downstream, or would it? Rather link to the "Getting Started" documented for that?

Author: At this point, I cannot publish a rendered version of this content on the Pantheon Staging site. The Avro content is hidden for the June 25th release. On June 25th, we publish the Stage version of the Debezium User Guide. So it cannot show the Avro serialization content.  I hope that's clear. Let me know if not!

Reviewer 2: Sorry, I'm not quite sure I'm following. I was referring to the link `{prodname} {link-prefix}:{link-tutorial}[tutorial]` which points to a resource (tutorial) which doesn't exist in downstream docs. Instead, the "Getting Started" guide should be linked in a conditional for downstream.

Author: As for your question about the link to the tutorial - yes, that will work downstream. The downstream versions of these attributes are set to display the customer portal Debezium Getting Started Guide. I think that the clickable text of "tutorial" is okay as a generic term. But if you prefer to see "Debezium Getting Started Guide" as the clickable text, let me know. I would need to define a new document attribute to do that.

* Avro _Serdes_ (serializers and deserializers) for Kafka producers and consumers. Kafka consumer applications that you write to consume change event records can use Avro Serdes to deserialize the change event records.

To use the {registry} with {prodname}, add {registry} converters and their dependencies to the Kafka Connect container image that you are using for running a {prodname} connector.

[NOTE]
====
The {registry} project also provides a JSON converter. This converter combines the advantage of less verbose messages with human-readable JSON. Messages do not contain the schema information themselves, but only a schema ID.
====

// Type: concept
// Title: Overview of deploying a {prodname} connector that uses Avro serialization
[id="overview-of-deploying-a-debezium-connector-that-uses-avro-serialization"]
== Deployment overview

To deploy a {prodname} connector that uses Avro serialization, there are three main tasks: 

ifdef::community[]
. Deploy an link:https://github.com/Apicurio/apicurio-registry[{registry-name-full}] instance.
endif::community[]
ifdef::product[]

> . Deploy a link:{LinkServiceRegistryGetStart}[{registry-name-full} instance by following the instructions in {NameServiceRegistryGetStart}].

Reviewer 3: This doesn't render (yet?) into working link

Author: Right. This doc has not yet been published. It should not work yet.

value.converter.apicurio.registry.global-id=io.apicurio.registry.utils.serde.strategy.AutoRegisterIdStrategy
----

Internally, Kafka Connect always uses JSON key/value converters for storing configuration and offsets.

// Type: procedure
// Title: Deploying connectors that use Avro in {prodname} containers
// ModuleID: deploying-connectors-that-use-avro-in-debezium-containers
== Deploying with {prodname} containers

> In your environment, you might want to use a {prodname} pre-built container to deploy a {prodname} connector that uses Avro serializaion. Follow the procedure here to do that. In this procedure, you build a {prodname} image in which {prodname} uses the Avro converter.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In your environment, you might want to use a {prodname} pre-built container to deploy {prodname} connectors that use Avro serialization. Follow the procedure here to do that. In this procedure, you build a custom Kafka Connect container image for {prodname} which contains the Avro converter.  
```

Author: Done.

.Prerequisites

* You have the required permissions on a Kafka cluster.
* You downloaded the {prodname} connector plug-in that you want to deploy with Avro serialization.

.Procedure

. Deploy an instance of {registry}. 
+
ifdef::community[]
The following example uses a non-production, in-memory, {registry}  instance:
+
[source,subs="attributes"]
----
docker run -it --rm --name apicurio \
    -p 8080:8080 apicurio/apicurio-registry-mem:{apicurio-version}
----
endif::community[]
ifdef::product[]
.. Choose the OpenShift project in which you want to deploy the {prodname} connector. In the following command, `$NAMESPACE` represents your project.  
.. Deploy the latest published {registry} operator by running the following command:
+

> `curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/apicurio/apicurio-registry-operator/master/docs/resources/install.yaml | sed "s/{NAMESPACE}/$NAMESPACE/g" | oc apply -f -`

Reviewer 2: Is this the right resource for downstream?

Author: I asked Steve McCarthy, to point me to the downstream resource and this is what he pointed me to. I don't know his GitHub user name. I'll find out and tag him here to confirm.

Reviewer 2: Ok, let's clarify that. In particular using "master" seems really odd for product, I'd expect a fixed reference instead of a live branch.

Author: Adding @smccarthy-ie , to help us straighten this out.

Reviewer 4: @TovaCohen @gunnarmorling, OK, some confusion around upstream/downstream product names. You were asking about Apicurio Registry (upstream) installation, but Service Registry is the downstream product :)  

The latest downstream Service Registry docs show using the OperatorHub in the OpenShift UI. I don't know the command line equivalent. 

@jsenko Can you tell us what is the downstream equivalent of `curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/apicurio/apicurio-registry-operator/master/docs/resources/install.yaml | sed "s/{NAMESPACE}/$NAMESPACE/g" | oc apply -f -`

Author: I replaced these instructions with a cross-reference to follow the instructions in Getting Started with Service Registry, "Installing Service Registry from the OperatorHub".
@gunnarmorling  Let me know if you think we also need to provide a command line alternative.

+

> This deploys the latest development version of the {registry} operator from the `master` branch. To deploy other versions, specify a different branch or tag, or edit the operator image reference in the file.

Reviewer 2: This surely should be a stable released version, not master?

Author: I will ask Steve McCarthy to confirm.

Author: Adding @smccarthy-ie , to help us straighten this out.

Reviewer 5: Latest stable released version is `0.0.2` (tag name is the same)

Author: @gunnarmorling  I removed this instruction. Let me know if you want me to put back an updated command line.

+
.. Create a new {registry} deployment by specifying the in-memory persistence option in one of the example custom resources, for example:
+
`oc create -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/apicurio/apicurio-registry-operator/master/docs/resources/example-cr/in-memory.yaml`
+

> The in-memory deployment is not suitable for production. Use the Kafka Streams persistence option for production. For more information, see {LinkServiceRegistryGetStart}[NameServiceRegistryGetStart].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The in-memory deployment is not suitable for production. Use the Apache Kafka persistence option for production. For more information, see {LinkServiceRegistryGetStart}[NameServiceRegistryGetStart].
```

Author: Done

endif::product[]

> . Build a {prodname} container image that implements the Avro converter:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Build a {prodname} container image that contains the Avro converter:
```

+
ifdef::community[]
.. Copy link:https://github.com/debezium/debezium-examples/blob/master/tutorial/debezium-with-apicurio/Dockerfile[`Dockerfile`] to a convenient location. This file has the following content: 
+
[listing,options="nowrap"]
----
ARG DEBEZIUM_VERSION
FROM debezium/connect:$DEBEZIUM_VERSION
ENV KAFKA_CONNECT_DEBEZIUM_DIR=$KAFKA_CONNECT_PLUGINS_DIR/debezium-connector-mysql

> ENV APICURIO_VERSION=1.1.2.Final

Reviewer 2: There's a variable defined for the version (in antora.yml in case of upstream docs): {apicurio-version}. Enable substitution for the listing in order to reference it.

Author: Done. In next commit.

RUN cd $KAFKA_CONNECT_DEBEZIUM_DIR &&\
    curl https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/io/apicurio/apicurio-registry-distro-connect-converter/$APICURIO_VERSION/apicurio-registry-distro-connect-converter-$APICURIO_VERSION-converter.tar.gz | tar xzv
----

.. Run the following command: 
+
[source,subs="attributes"]
----
docker build --build-arg DEBEZIUM_VERSION={debezium-docker-label} -t debezium/connect-apicurio:{debezium-docker-label} .
----
endif::community[]
ifdef::product[]
.. Download the link:https://access.redhat.com/jbossnetwork/restricted/listSoftware.html?product=red.hat.integration&downloadType=distributions[{registry} Kafka Connect] zip file. 
.. Extract the content into the directory that contains the {prodname} connector that you are configuring to use Avro serialization. 
.. Create a custom image for Kafka Connect. See link:{LinkCDCInstallOpenShift}[NameCDCInstallOpenShift] for an example of how to do this. Start with the `Dockerfile` in that example. Then add the {registry} converters to the connector directories. 
endif::product[]

> . Run a Kafka Connect image that is configured to use Avro:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Run the newly built Kafka Connect image, configuring it so it uses the Avro converter (or configure specific converters to do so):
```

Author: I don't understand the last part of your suggestion. 
What do you mean by "configure specific converters to do so"? -- It sounds like this says that you can configure other converters to use the Avro converter. Is that what you mean?

Reviewer 2: Ah, sorry, I meant "specific connectors". Converters can be configured globally for the entire Connect worker or individually for connectors. As commented somewhere else, I think ideally we'd only discuss the latter.

Author: Fixed for now. Will revisit to do better.

ENV APICURIO_VERSION={apicurio-version}

RUN cd $KAFKA_CONNECT_DEBEZIUM_DIR &&\
    curl https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/io/apicurio/apicurio-registry-distro-connect-converter/$APICURIO_VERSION/apicurio-registry-distro-connect-converter-$APICURIO_VERSION-converter.tar.gz | tar xzv
----

.. Run the following command: 
+
[source,subs="attributes+"]
----
docker build --build-arg DEBEZIUM_VERSION={debezium-docker-label} -t debezium/connect-apicurio:{debezium-docker-label} .
----
endif::community[]
ifdef::product[]
.. Download the link:https://access.redhat.com/jbossnetwork/restricted/listSoftware.html?product=red.hat.integration&downloadType=distributions[{registry} Kafka Connect] zip file. 
.. Extract the content into the directory that contains the {prodname} connector that you are configuring to use Avro serialization. 
.. Create a custom image for Kafka Connect. See link:{LinkCDCInstallOpenShift}[{NameCDCInstallOpenShift}, Creating a container image from the Kafka Connect base image] for an example of how to do this. Start with the `Dockerfile` in that example. Then add the {registry} converters to the connector directories. 

> endif::product[]

Reviewer 3: This section talks about Docker file, which means building a custom Kafka Connect image (which is correct), the issue comes in my next comment

    -e CONNECT_VALUE_CONVERTER_APICURIO_REGISTRY_GLOBAL-ID=io.apicurio.registry.utils.serde.strategy.AutoRegisterIdStrategy \
    -p 8083:8083 debezium/connect-apicurio:{debezium-docker-label}
----
endif::community[]
ifdef::product[]

> .. Follow the steps in the link:{LinkCDCGettingStarted}#deploying-kafka-connect[example of deploying Kafka Connect] in {NameCDCGettingStarted}.

Reviewer 2: @TovaCohen, I somehow had missed this before (thanks to @jcechace for pointing it out), here you're adding new S2I docs. While we agreed to only fully transition to the custom containers approach for the next release docs, why adding more S2I-flavoured this time, which we only will have to modify next time?

Author: @gunnarmorling I agree that this is the wrong way to update the doc. But I don't know how to make it right. Please see my previous comment.  I recognize the inconsistency and the disconnect in the procedure. But I don't have any background with regard to OpenShift images. I plan to remedy that. I'll go do some reading now. But I need precise input from you or Jiri or someone to correct this documentation for this release.

Reviewer 3: Not only that... this procedure starts with Dockerfile (correct way of building custom Kafka Connect image) and then switches to s2i... this creates a mix between two working (although we want to promote only the Docker way) approaches...

+
.inventory-connector.yaml
[source,yaml,options="nowrap"]
----
  apiVersion: kafka.strimzi.io/v1beta1
  kind: KafkaConnector
  metadata:
    name: inventory-connector  
    labels:
      strimzi.io/cluster: my-connect-cluster
  spec:
    class: io.debezium.connector.mysql.MySqlConnector
    tasksMax: 1  
    config:  
      database.hostname: mysql  
      database.port: 3306
      database.user: debezium
      database.password: dbz
      database.server.id: 184054  
      database.server.name: dbserver1  
      database.whitelist: inventory  
      database.history.kafka.bootstrap.servers: my-cluster-kafka-bootstrap:9092  
      database.history.kafka.topic: schema-changes.inventory  
      key.converter: io.apicurio.registry.utils.converter.AvroConverter
      key.converter.apicurio.registry.url: http://apicurio:8080/api
      key.converter.apicurio.registry.global-id: io.apicurio.registry.utils.serde.strategy.AutoRegisterIdStrategy
      value.converter: io.apicurio.registry.utils.converter.AvroConverter
      value.converter.apicurio.registry.url: http://apicurio:8080/api

>       value.converter.apicurio.registry.global-id: io.apicurio.registry.utils.serde.strategy.AutoRegisterIdStrategy

Reviewer 2: Ok, so that's good to show this connector-specific configuration here. Taking a step back, there's still some inconsistency overall. The situation is this:

* Avro can be enabled on the Kafka Connect worker level (as shown above via "Configure a Kafka Connect instance with the following property settings", and also then via the environment variables in the community variant)
* Avro can be enabled for a specific connector (as shown here for product, it's currently not shown for the community variant)

My general recommendation would be to _only_ show the second approach, enabling it for a specific connector, and not mention the worker-level approach, as it's less flexible.

Author: I don't know how to implement your recommendation - that is, I don't know how to change the doc. I'll commit the changes I made and then perhaps you can suggest the specific changes you want to see. I'll be happy to accept/commit your suggestions. This time around, I didn't Commit Suggestions because in the past Chris has recommended one commit with all the updates.

Reviewer 2: Ok. Let me know once you're done from your side and I'll try and make that change myself.

Reviewer 2: In general though, the idea is to solely show how the Avro converter is used at the connector level instead of showing how to enable it globally for the Kafka Connect worker node. That's already the case for the product variant. For upstream it'd mean to show the right curl POST command with the equivalent configuration.

Author: I removed all references to workers. The doc now talks only about configuring a Debezium connector, upstream and downstream.

For a complete example of using Avro as the message format for {prodname} data change events,
please see the https://github.com/debezium/debezium-examples/tree/master/tutorial#using-mysql-and-the-avro-message-format[MySQL and the Avro message format] tutorial example.

> endif::[community]

Reviewer: Looks like this is a typo, should be `endif::community[]`?

Author: Yes, that's a typo. Fixed in the next commit.
